What can we learn about generosity and trust
from Jehovah’s use of the holy spirit?
First, let’s consider generosity.
If you had a monopoly
on all the energy and fuel in the universe,
would you distribute it freely and generously
or would you charge the highest price
possible for it by the gallon?
Well, what example does our Father set
when it comes to providing his holy spirit?
Please note the inspired words
of the apostle John at John chapter 3,
and notice with me, please, verse 34.
At John 3:34, there it says:
“For the one whom God sent
speaks the sayings of God,
for He [Jehovah]
does not give the spirit sparingly.”
Now, The New American Bible  says here:
“He does not ration his gift of the Spirit.”
Can you think of Bible examples
from the Hebrew Scriptures
when Jehovah gave his holy spirit generously?
Bezalel was filled with the power of God.
Joshua “was full of the spirit of wisdom.”
Jehovah’s spirit empowered Samson.
What about in the Greek Scriptures?
Well, John the Baptizer was filled
with holy spirit even before birth.
And then there was the anointing
of Jesus’ disciples with holy spirit
on Pentecost 33 C.E.,
which is referred to in today’s text.
Acts 2:4 says that those disciples
“all became filled with holy spirit
and started to speak in different languages.”
Of course, Jehovah uses his holy spirit
to accomplish different things
in harmony with his purpose,
but there is no doubt
that he provides it generously.
Well, what about in our day?
Jesus’ words reveal one of the ways
that holy spirit is used in our behalf.
If you’re still there in the book of John,
notice Jesus’ words at John 14:16, 17.
He said: “And I will ask the Father
“and he will give you another helper
to be with you forever,
the spirit of the truth.”
The study note for John 14:16 says
that the word “helper”
could also mean “comforter;
encourager; advocate.”
Well, how can holy spirit be a comforter?
Verse 26 mentions
“the helper, the holy spirit, . . .
“that one will teach you all things
and bring back to your minds
all the things I told you.”
Holy spirit can help us to remember.
It can bring back to our minds.
What does it help us to remember?
Well, many times it’s comforting thoughts
from God’s Word itself.
Consider just one news item from jw.org.
In December 2021, Pyotr and his wife, Maya,
received a three-year
suspended prison sentence
for discussing religious materials
with their friends.
When asked if he could recall
an occasion when Jehovah helped him,
Pyotr said: “I [recall a time
when] I prayed for holy spirit
“and then I remembered
a thought from John 10:28, where it says:
“‘No one
will snatch them out of my hand.’
“Reflecting on that point
made me feel strong and happy.
“I could sense that my Father
was right by my side.
As a result, I felt calmer
and more confident.”
There it is: Jehovah was comforting
one of his servants
with his holy spirit.
Now, in what situations
do you need
the holy spirit to be a comforter,
encourager, or an advocate?
We all know our own plague—our own pain.
Jehovah does too,
and he will use his holy spirit
to help us display
love, joy, peace, patience,
mildness, goodness, faith, self-control,
or other qualities
that we need in our service to him.
Although Jehovah
has a monopoly on holy spirit,
he isn’t stingy.
The greater our need for holy spirit,
the greater his generosity.
Even though 8 million of Jehovah’s servants
may be requesting his spirit,
it doesn’t drive up the price.
Holy spirit is a free gift.
Well, what is the lesson for us?
Let’s allow Jehovah to tell us
through his inspired Word
at Proverbs 3:27, 28.
How can we imitate Jehovah’s generosity?
Proverbs 3:27 says:
“Do not withhold good
from those to whom you should give it
“if it is within your power to help.
“Do not say to your neighbor,
‘Go away; come back later!
I will give it to you tomorrow,’
if you can give it now.”
The lesson?
Be generous like Jehovah.
Fill the needs of others.
What’s a second point that we can learn
from Jehovah’s use of holy spirit?
Well, trust.
How does Jehovah distribute his spirit?
We find a clue at Philippians 1:19
—Philippians 1:19.
And there it says: “For I know
that this will result in my salvation
“through your supplication
and with the support
of the spirit of Jesus Christ.”
What does that mean,
“the spirit of Jesus Christ”?
Well, the study note
on “the spirit of Jesus Christ”
says that apparently this refers
“to Jesus’ use of God’s holy spirit,
or active force.”
The study note continues:
“[Acts] 2:33 says that Jesus
“‘received the promised holy spirit
from the Father.’
“At [Philippians] 1:11, Paul prayed
“that Christians might ‘be filled
with righteous fruit,
which is through Jesus Christ,
to God’s glory and praise.’”
We note it says:
“Ever since Jesus was resurrected
and he ascended to heaven,
God has used him to supply the needs
of Christians on earth.”
That no doubt includes
pouring out God’s holy spirit.
That’s a lot of trust.
Well, was Pentecost 33 C.E.
the first time that the Son of God
used God’s holy spirit
in behalf of Jehovah’s—
That he used it
to accomplish Jehovah’s will?
Well, notice Colossians 1:15, 16.
There it says regarding the Son of God:
“He is the image of the invisible God,
“the firstborn of all creation;
because by means of him
all other things were created
in the heavens and on the earth.”
Jehovah, the Creator,
used his “master worker”
to bring everything else into existence.
Did Jesus need to use Jehovah’s holy spirit
to accomplish what he had been assigned?
That’s obvious.
The book “Come Be My Follower,”
page 131, paragraph 8 says:
“In some respects, we might liken
this cooperation between Father and Son
“to that of an architect
working with a builder, or contractor,
who [brings] the architect’s . . .
designs to reality.”
Is that evidence of trust by Jehovah?
Clearly.
Jehovah gave his Son
the materials and the training
to accomplish an assigned task.
Well, what’s the lesson for us?
We find a principle at 2 Timothy 2:1, 2
—2 Timothy 2:1, 2.
There it says—
Paul writing under inspiration to Timothy,
he said: “You, therefore, my child,
keep on acquiring power
“in the undeserved kindness
that is in Christ Jesus;
“and the things you heard from me
that were supported by many witnesses,
“these things entrust to faithful men,
who, in turn, will be adequately qualified
to teach others.”
There were four generations
of teachers and learners
—the apostle Paul, Timothy,
faithful men, and still others.
The lesson for us:
Continue to train,
continue to delegate, continue to trust.
So, what have we considered?
Jehovah is generous
with his use of holy spirit.
We should be generous
with our time and possessions.
Jehovah trusts his Son
to pour out his precious holy spirit.
We should delegate responsibility
and trust others
to fulfill their assignments.
Indeed, the holy spirit
is a precious free gift
from our generous Father.
May we all continue to beg for it,
trusting fully in “the one who can,
“according to his power
that is operating in us,
“do more than superabundantly
beyond all the things we ask or conceive.”